.TH MIRAGE 1 "August 2025" "mirage 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mirage \- retrieve and filter a list of the latest Arch Linux mirrors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mirage
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mirage
is a command-line tool for retrieving and filtering Arch Linux mirrors, similar to reflector. It fetches mirror data from the Arch Linux Mirror Status API and allows filtering, sorting, and outputting mirrors based on various criteria such as location, protocol, synchronization status, and performance metrics.

The tool supports configuration files and provides extensive filtering options to help users find the most suitable mirrors for their needs.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Connection Options
.TP
.BR \-\-connection\-timeout " \fIn\fR"
The number of seconds to wait before a connection times out. Default: 5
.TP
.BR \-\-download\-timeout " \fIn\fR"
The number of seconds to wait before a download times out. Default: 5
.TP
.BR \-\-cache\-timeout " \fIn\fR"
The cache timeout in seconds for the data retrieved from the Arch Linux Mirror Status API. Default: 300
.TP
.BR \-\-url " \fIURL\fR"
The URL from which to retrieve the mirror data in JSON format. Default: https://archlinux.org/mirrors/status/json/
.TP
.BR \-\-threads " \fIn\fR"
Use n threads for rating mirrors when using rate-based sorting or fastest selection.

.SS Filtering Options
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-age " \fIn\fR"
Only return mirrors that have synchronized in the last n hours.
.TP
.BR \-\-delay " \fIn\fR"
Only return mirrors with a reported sync delay of n hours or less.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-country " \fIcountry\fR"
Restrict mirrors to selected countries. Can be specified multiple times. Accepts country names or country codes.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-protocol " \fIprotocol\fR"
Match one of the given protocols (e.g., http, https, ftp). Can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-\-completion\-percent " \fI0\-100\fR"
Set the minimum completion percent for the returned mirrors. Default: 100.0
.TP
.BR \-\-isos
Only return mirrors that host ISOs.
.TP
.BR \-\-ipv4
Only return mirrors that support IPv4.
.TP
.BR \-\-ipv6
Only return mirrors that support IPv6.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-include " \fIregex\fR"
Include servers that match the given regular expression.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-exclude " \fIregex\fR"
Exclude servers that match the given regular expression.

.SS Output Options
.TP
.BR \-\-sort " \fIMETHOD\fR"
Sort the mirrorlist. Valid methods are: age, rate, country, score, delay, duration, duration-std
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fastest " \fIn\fR"
Return the n fastest mirrors that meet the other criteria.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-latest " \fIn\fR"
Limit the list to the n most recently synchronized servers.
.TP
.BR \-\-score " \fIn\fR"
Limit the list to the n servers with the highest score.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-number " \fIn\fR"
Return at most n mirrors.
.TP
.BR \-\-save " \fIfilepath\fR"
Save the mirrorlist to the given path.
.TP
.BR \-\-info
Print mirror information instead of a mirror list.
.TP
.BR \-\-list\-countries
Display a table of the distribution of servers by country.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Print extra information to STDERR.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all informational output and only print the mirrorlist. Useful for scripts and automation.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.B mirage
supports configuration files that use the same syntax as command-line arguments. Configuration files are searched in the following locations, in order:
.PP
.RS
1. $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mirage/config
.br
2. ~/.config/mirage/config
.br
3. ~/.mirage/config
.RE
.PP
The configuration file format supports:
.IP \(bu 2
One argument per line
.IP \(bu 2
Comments starting with #
.IP \(bu 2
Empty lines (ignored)
.IP \(bu 2
Quoted arguments with spaces
.PP
Command-line arguments take precedence over configuration file settings.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic Usage
List all available mirrors:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage
.RE
.PP
Get the 10 most recently synchronized mirrors from Germany:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-country Germany \-\-latest 10
.RE
.PP
Get mirrors that support HTTPS and IPv6:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-protocol https \-\-ipv6
.RE

.SS Advanced Filtering
Get the 5 fastest mirrors that synchronized within the last 6 hours:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-age 6 \-\-fastest 5
.RE
.PP
Exclude slow mirrors and get only the best ones:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-delay 1 \-\-completion\-percent 100 \-\-sort score \-\-number 5
.RE
.PP
Find mirrors matching a specific pattern:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-include "kernel\\.org" \-\-protocol https
.RE

.SS Output and Information
Save a mirrorlist to a file:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-country "United States" \-\-protocol https \-\-save /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist
.RE
.PP
Get detailed information about mirrors:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-info \-\-country Germany \-\-fastest 3
.RE
.PP
Show distribution of mirrors by country:
.PP
.RS
.B mirage \-\-list\-countries
.RE

.SS Configuration File Example
Create ~/.config/mirage/config:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Default configuration for mirage
\-\-country Germany
\-\-country "United States"
\-\-protocol https
\-\-completion\-percent 95
\-\-age 24
\-\-sort score
.fi
.RE

.SH SORTING METHODS
.TP
.B age
Sort by synchronization age (most recent first).
.TP
.B rate, score
Sort by mirror score/rating (highest first).
.TP
.B country
Sort alphabetically by country name.
.TP
.B delay
Sort by synchronization delay (lowest first).
.TP
.B duration
Sort by average connection duration (fastest first).
.TP
.B duration\-std
Sort by connection duration standard deviation (most consistent first).

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
By default, \fBmirage\fR outputs a standard pacman mirrorlist format:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Arch Linux mirrorlist generated by mirage
# Generated on 2025-08-14 12:00:00 UTC

# Germany: https://mirror.example.de/archlinux/
Server = https://mirror.example.de/archlinux/$repo/os/$arch

# United States: https://mirror.example.com/archlinux/
Server = https://mirror.example.com/archlinux/$repo/os/$arch
.fi
.RE
.PP
When using \fB\-\-info\fR, detailed information about each mirror is displayed instead.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred (e.g., network failure, invalid arguments, file write error)

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mirage/config
User configuration file (XDG Base Directory Specification)
.TP
.I ~/.config/mirage/config
User configuration file (fallback location)
.TP
.I ~/.mirage/config
User configuration file (legacy location)
.TP
.I /etc/pacman.d/mirrorlist
Default location where generated mirrorlist is often saved

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Directory for user configuration files. If not set, defaults to ~/.config
.TP
.B HOME
User's home directory, used for fallback configuration file locations

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pacman (8),
.BR pacman.conf (5),
.BR reflector (1)

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/MarcJose/mirage/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Marc Jose <marc@hahn-jose.de>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Marc Jose. Licensed under MIT.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.